Okay, now, we're gonna start getting
into actually building out the API.
Now that we have our server,
we're just gonna move fast and we're gonna
hop right into modeling the data and
getting everything organized when it comes
to making sure our API can actually
do things and it's protecting stuff.
But before that,
we kinda gotta talk about what an ORM is.
So I would say most of you
probably know what a database is.
We are probably not database experts.
But I think if you don't
know what a database is,
it's basically just a mechanism for
you to store things on disk.
You can think of a database as, yeah, it's
like you saving stuff to a hard drive or
an SSD, whereas the code that you write
is saved in RAM and is temporary.
So database is just an obstruction
around how you interact with an SSD or
hard drive through code.
That's basically what it is, and
there's so many of those databases.
But how you interact with the database,
that's where things start to get funky.
So in oder to do that,
we need something called an ORM.
An ORM is basically,
the way that I think about it,
it's basically an STK for the database.
That's basically what it is.
It's the library that you install
that allows you to interact with
the database so you don't have to
do any lower level operations.
For instance, if you were to use
a SQL database like SQL or SQLite,
imagine trying to insert some
customers into that database,
it will look something like this.
This is the SQL query you
would have to write, right?
It would literally look like this.
So I don't know, if you're a SQL god and
usually doing SQL your whole life,
this is probably nothing.
But for the new generation of folks
that just haven't grown up on SQL, yeah,
Brian Holt is the god.
And this SQL course is pretty good
actually to get because I was one of those
people that didn't learn SQL
when I was learning to code, so
it's a really good course.
And even with ORM,
you still sometimes have to write SQL,
but imagine having to write SQL.
[LAUGH] And
this is what it will look like, okay?
This is cool, this is fine, right?
Yeah, I didn't test that, I don't know,
but yeah, imagine writing this, okay?
This is fine, when in ORM, which is
an SDK for interacting with database,
you can turn this insert operation
into this, a function call, okay?
That's what an ORM does,
it's an SDK for your database.
So that's what we're gonna be using,
we're gonna be using ORM to
interact with our database.
We're also gonna be using that same
ORM to create schemas, create models,
everything to do with the database, we'll
use this SDK, and that's called an ORM.
ORM stands for object-relation mapper.
And I think it's described that way
because it basically allows you to
interact with the database based
off an object-oriented approach.
So everything is an object, for instance,
this is a customer's object and
I'm able to create a customer.
So it's just a fancy way of saying
it's OOP for databases, and
it's just called object-relational mapper.
But I think honestly, we should just start
calling them database SDKs at this point
cuz that's literally what they are.
And we should just scrap the term ORM,
it's kind of moot at this point.
Cool, any questions on that?
Yes.
>> You mentioned using PostgreSQL
instead of Mongo, is there any advantage
to Mongo over Postgres,
especially since Postgres stores JSON?
>> Is there any advantage
using Mongo over Postgres,
especially since Postgres stores JSON?
That advantage is gonna
come down to how efficient
your multi $100 million business is and
how often they need to scale.
The difference between the two and what
needs to happen is so irrelevant early
on that it probably just comes down to
what are you most comfortable with?
What tools do you like the most?
What level of support are you getting?
Who's giving you a better
price versus what it can do,
because Mongo is completely
acid at this point?
They have transactions now,
whereas before, they didn't.
So I might have said, Postgres has
transactions, but so does Mongo now.
So actually, I mean, you could
pretty much do whatever you want.
The reason I'm using and also the ORM that
we're gonna be using actually doesn't care
what database you have, it actually works
the same no matter what database you use.
So it really doesn't matter at that point,
and I really liked that.
So there really isn't any advantage
other than what you're comfortable with.
And if you do get to the point where it
does matter, again, different problems.